README.md, before:

# synth-diy
##### About

(Mostly) Eurorack projects.

This is a repository of the various Eurorack modules that I've been working on recently. It includes the Kicad schematics and PCB layouts that you could use to order your own PCBs.

If you would like a kit or set of PCBs from any of the projects here, please drop me an email [twigathy+synth@gmail.com](mailto:twigathy+synth@gmail.com).

The contents of this repository are licensed CC BY-NC-SA 4.0, unless otherwise noted. This means you're free to use these projects directly, remix or change them, but no commercial use is permitted (Other than by me!). If you are going to re-release any of these projects you should also stick to the same license. For more information please check out the CC license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).

Finally, I'm a complete amateur when it comes to PCB and schematic design. The schematics are largely drawn from others available online, and each project contains some information about attribution. Not all the modules work perfectly - some have significant issues - and this will be noted in the README in each folder.

##### Projects

- [LPG](lpg/) - 4hp Low Pass Gate with a vacrtrol at its core, based on the [LPG & CV Tools](https://modularsynth.wordpress.com/module-diy-lpgatt/) module
- [Mix](mix/) - 3hp, 4-to-1 mixer based on the [CGS04 DC Mixer](https://elby-designs.com/webtek/cgs/cgs04/cgs04_mix.html)
- [Multimult](multimult/) - 8hp, 6-way Buffered Multiple
- [Pentanoise](pentanoise) - 4hp, 5-way binary white noise source using the ElectricDruid [Pentanoise chip](https://electricdruid.net/product/pentanoise-noise-generator/)
- [Pirate Radio](pirate-radio/) - 4hp panel for [Radio Music](https://github.com/TomWhitwell/RadioMusic)
- [Sloth](slew-limiter/) - 4hp Dual Slew Limiter with state LEDs, based on the [dintree D107](http://www.dintree.com/#D107)
- [VCA](VCA/) - 6hp Dual VCA, based on the [ElectricDruid LM13700 VCA](https://electricdruid.net/design-a-eurorack-vintage-vca-with-the-lm13700/)
- [VCDO](VCDO/) - 10hp, Wavetable VCDO using the ElectricDruid [Wavetable chip](https://electricdruid.net/product/vcdo-wavetable-oscillator/)
- [YARM+](yarmplus/) - 4hp Ring Modulator, based on the René Schmitz [YARM+](https://www.schmitzbits.de/vca.html) design
- [YASH](yash/) - 5hp Sample and Hold based on the René Schmitz [YASH](https://www.schmitzbits.de/sah.html) design, with some modifications

Commit message:

Adding Turing Machine panels
Adding in the custom Turing Machine panels

Also adding in the source PNGs for icons too,
just in case they change in the future.

README.md, after:

# synth-diy
##### About

(Mostly) Eurorack projects.

This is a repository of the various Eurorack modules that I've been working on recently. It includes the Kicad schematics and PCB layouts that you could use to order your own PCBs.

If you would like a kit or set of PCBs from any of the projects here, please drop me an email [twigathy+synth@gmail.com](mailto:twigathy+synth@gmail.com).

The contents of this repository are licensed CC BY-NC-SA 4.0, unless otherwise noted. This means you're free to use these projects directly, remix or change them, but no commercial use is permitted (Other than by me!). If you are going to re-release any of these projects you should also stick to the same license. For more information please check out the CC license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/).

Finally, I'm a complete amateur when it comes to PCB and schematic design. The schematics are largely drawn from others available online, and each project contains some information about attribution. Not all the modules work perfectly - some have significant issues - and this will be noted in the README in each folder.

##### Projects

- [LPG](lpg/) - 4hp Low Pass Gate with a vacrtrol at its core, based on the [LPG & CV Tools](https://modularsynth.wordpress.com/module-diy-lpgatt/) module
- [Mix](mix/) - 3hp, 4-to-1 mixer based on the [CGS04 DC Mixer](https://elby-designs.com/webtek/cgs/cgs04/cgs04_mix.html)
- [Multimult](multimult/) - 8hp, 6-way Buffered Multiple
- [Pentanoise](pentanoise) - 4hp, 5-way binary white noise source using the ElectricDruid [Pentanoise chip](https://electricdruid.net/product/pentanoise-noise-generator/)
- [Pirate Radio](pirate-radio/) - 4hp panel for [Radio Music](https://github.com/TomWhitwell/RadioMusic)
- [Sloth](slew-limiter/) - 4hp Dual Slew Limiter with state LEDs, based on the [dintree D107](http://www.dintree.com/#D107)
- [Turing Machine Panels](turing-machine-panels/) - Panels for the [Turing Machine](https://github.com/TomWhitwell/TuringMachine), and [Volts](https://github.com/TomWhitwell/Volts) and [Pulses](https://github.com/TomWhitwell/Turing-Pulse-Expander) expanders
- [VCA](VCA/) - 6hp Dual VCA, based on the [ElectricDruid LM13700 VCA](https://electricdruid.net/design-a-eurorack-vintage-vca-with-the-lm13700/)
- [VCDO](VCDO/) - 10hp, Wavetable VCDO using the ElectricDruid [Wavetable chip](https://electricdruid.net/product/vcdo-wavetable-oscillator/)
- [YARM+](yarmplus/) - 4hp Ring Modulator, based on the René Schmitz [YARM+](https://www.schmitzbits.de/vca.html) design
- [YASH](yash/) - 5hp Sample and Hold based on the René Schmitz [YASH](https://www.schmitzbits.de/sah.html) design, with some modifications
