oak/README.md, before:

# Oak

##### What is this?

Oak is an expander for the looping, quantized sequencer Sycamore. Oak includes some controls to extend Sycamore's functionality, giving a little tighter control over the loop along with some additional useful outputs.

##### How much power does it use?

As measured by the joranalogue Test 3, at the very most 50 mA on +12v. The -12v and 5v rails are unused. When idle, around 25-40mA.

##### Where does the design come from?

While Sycamore's overall design primarily draws from the Mutable Instruments [cancelled projects](https://pichenettes.github.io/mutable-instruments-documentation/trivia_and_history/cancelled_projects/) page, Oak is entirely my own invention.

The RP2040 schematic and PCB layout was partly lifted from the RP2040 example schematic and PCB ([Minimal-KICAD.zip](https://datasheets.raspberrypi.com/rp2040/Minimal-KiCAD.zip)).

##### Are there any rare/weird parts used?

Oak's parts are all in production today. The RP2040, crystal, and flash are the parts that are hardest to find.

##### Are there any problems with the design?

The LED brightness for the four top LEDs is significantly higher than for the LED buttons, however these are only supposed to be lit for a brief period. PWM for these LEDs can should help reduce percieved brightness, alternatively a resistor soldered inline with the LED will help.

##### Do you have a BOM/Mouser cart/Tayda links?

Sorry, no. Things go out of stock so frequently it'd be a lot of work to keep these up to date. Everything in this project is easy to source though, so you should not have any trouble.

##### Can I buy PCBs or a kit?

Coming soon...

##### Other resources

[Kit BOM](BOM.md)

[Firmware guide](FIRMWARE.md)

[Manual](MANUAL.md)

[Assembly guide](ASSEMBLY.md)

![sycamore-panel](images/panel.png)

Commit message:

Adding links to Rowan and Oak's reverb and tindie shops

oak/README.md, after:

# Oak

##### What is this?

Oak is an expander for the looping, quantized sequencer Sycamore. Oak includes some controls to extend Sycamore's functionality, giving a little tighter control over the loop along with some additional useful outputs.

##### How much power does it use?

As measured by the joranalogue Test 3, at the very most 50 mA on +12v. The -12v and 5v rails are unused. When idle, around 25-40mA.

##### Where does the design come from?

While Sycamore's overall design primarily draws from the Mutable Instruments [cancelled projects](https://pichenettes.github.io/mutable-instruments-documentation/trivia_and_history/cancelled_projects/) page, Oak is entirely my own invention.

The RP2040 schematic and PCB layout was partly lifted from the RP2040 example schematic and PCB ([Minimal-KICAD.zip](https://datasheets.raspberrypi.com/rp2040/Minimal-KiCAD.zip)).

##### Are there any rare/weird parts used?

Oak's parts are all in production today. The RP2040, crystal, and flash are the parts that are hardest to find.

##### Are there any problems with the design?

The LED brightness for the four top LEDs is significantly higher than for the LED buttons, however these are only supposed to be lit for a brief period. PWM for these LEDs can should help reduce percieved brightness, alternatively a resistor soldered inline with the LED will help.

##### Do you have a BOM/Mouser cart/Tayda links?

Sorry, no. Things go out of stock so frequently it'd be a lot of work to keep these up to date. Everything in this project is easy to source though, so you should not have any trouble.

##### Can I buy PCBs or a kit?

Available as a [DIY Kit from Tindie](https://www.tindie.com/products/divergentwaves/oak/), or as a [built module from Reverb](https://reverb.com/uk/item/85429774-divergent-waves-oak).

##### Other resources

[Kit BOM](BOM.md)

[Firmware guide](FIRMWARE.md)

[Manual](MANUAL.md)

[Assembly guide](ASSEMBLY.md)

![sycamore-panel](images/panel.png)
